---
layout: portfolio
title: Reflective Statement
---
To the APT Committee:
Hello, everyone. I can hardly believe that it is time for me to be submitting my portfolio for continuing appointment and promotion to Associate Librarian. During my time in SUNY I have strived for excellence in librarianship, scholarship and service. Looking back on my portfolio, I hope you will see that I have gone above and beyond the recommendations listed in our bylaws and the policies of the Board of Trustees.
My abilities in librarianship are evidenced by various projects I’ve undertaken first at Oneonta and then here. I believe my strengths lie in the areas of technology and instruction. The projects of which I am most proud are: the new books carousel on our home page, LibraryH3lp (pidgin), and a consistent header to brand our externally hosted services. In the realm of instruction I have fostered a relationship with the Department of Education and Human Development as well as select professors in History, Modern Languages and Cultures, Counselor Education and area high-school librarians. In September of 2011 I transitioned into the role of Resource Sharing Librarian. This transition not only brought a new office location, but also has given me some incredible administrative and supervisory experience and allowed me to harness my technology and instruction skills to transform the way Brockport does Resource Sharing. I have made significant improvements in workflow for all aspects of Interlibrary Loan and Course Reserves. Currently, initial Lending processing is happening after-hours in Circulation.
My scholarship is most strongly evidenced by the completion of my Master of Science in Information Design and Technology through SLN and SUNYIT. This course of study has informed my viewpoint on library services from a distance education perspective as well as allowed me to create visually appealing LibGuides. Beyond completion of my degree, I have also managed to present in several venues from campus events to international conferences. In the realm of publication, I have authored an article, published a software Addon for ILLiad and currently have taken the lead role in composing an article that is the product of my involvement in a still-ongoing Faculty Learning Community.
I truly believe in the importance of service as part of the library profession. After starting in SUNY, I joined SUNYLA and remained an active participant and leader. My most notable service accomplishment was serving as President the year we hosted the conference here at Brockport. During that year I also brought the membership directory online and created a registration system for the annual conference. In addition, I also serve as an IDS Mentor helping to improve resource sharing through the entire IDS Project. At the local level I have been involved in College Senate as Parliamentarian and on several campus committees.
Thank you for giving me the chances I’ve had to impact library services at The College at Brockport. I am truly grateful for the ability to use my technology skills and competence to create innovative solutions and patron-driven services. Furthermore, the opportunities for scholarship and service here are astounding. I have truly enjoyed being a part of the Brockport community since 2008 and hope that you will see the supporting evidence in this portfolio to merit a recommendation for Continuing Appointment and promotion to Associate Librarian.