---
layout: portfolio
title: Reflective Statement
---
To the APT Committee:

The library is a very different place than it was when I submitted my last successful portfolio in February of 2013. We now offer different services than we did before and the information landscape has evolved since that time. While our services may have changed, our service-oriented mission has not. We still have students and faculty/staff that need support. I am proud to be one of the people in Drake helping our students, faculty and staff achieve their goals through the use of library resources. 

My librarianship is best evidenced by my long-standing collaborations with faculty, staff, and students across campus. Through instruction, I have come to forge deep collaborations with members of the Department of Education & Human Development, as well as Public Health & Health Education, and Social Work. I also have great relationships with the other departments I support, although they request less library instruction. I have created and delivered instruction to students in face-to-face as well as hybrid and fully asynchronous modalities. This past year I have committed to working together with my colleagues in the instruction team. 

I have also taken on several projects of increasing responsibility. Since 2013, I took over instruction for the undergraduate coursework in social work when Charlie Cowling transitioned to the position of College Archivist. Another major project was helping coordinate the functional area trainings for our move to Alma for the entire SUNY system. We successfully delivered training to all SUNY campuses and received great feedback about the courses we offered. Lastly, I have kept current through professional development. In addition to conference attendance, I am pursuing a PhD in Curriculum and Instruction with a focus on information literacy. This venture has helped me more deeply understand the Framework for Information Literacy in Higher Education as well as other theoretical constructs that inform our daily work. The best evidence for my librarianship is likely the Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in Librarianship I received in 2016. The nomination for this award was authored by one of my closest collaborators, Allison Wright, and is included in the appendices of this portfolio.

My scholarship has moved into the peer-reviewed level since the submission of my previous portfolio. I have completed eleven peer-reviewed products including two book chapters, eight articles, and one software package. I have written one non-scholary article and currently have three projects in various stages of writing. I have presented at many different levels from internal to international. I have also completed many acts of applied scholarship by using my skills and knowledge in the library context. One example of this is the way I’ve used my information design skillset to design the room cards that go outside each lab/classroom to display the events taking place that week. Another example is the Brockport accounts chart that was distributed and posted around campus before the campus adopted a single sign on. For metrics, my collected works in Digital Commons have been downloaded more than 1,250 times since February 2013. Lastly, I have decided to continue my scholarship through the enrollment into the PhD program at the University at Buffalo in Curriculum, Instruction, and the Science of Learning (CISL). To date I have completed 28 credits and have passed the first milestone. This program will give me the skills I need to further my practice and become a researcher who is capable of creating scholarship of discovery.

Over the past years, I have tried to focus my service activities to a manageable size while also performing service for aspiring to the rank of Librarian. My campus-wide service is now chairing the Faculty and Processional Staff Policies committee of College Senate. This position places me on two additional campus-wide committees: Policy Management Steering Committee and the Enterprise Risk Management Committees. I also have joined during the past two years, the Committee on Accessibility. My largest service responsibility, though, was serving on the Faculty Roles, Rewards, and Responsibilities Task Force. My role on this task force was to represent faculty librarian interests and to make sure our unique position is understood within the greater context of faculty on campus. I was selected to serve on this by Dr. Dawn Jones, the initial task force chair. In the past I have served on University Faculty Senate committees and as our campus senator. My work on the Awards and Program committee involved helping to evaluate and modify the criteria for Distinguished Librarian. This work has resulted in an additional 3 appointees to the rank of Distinguished Librarian, thus raising the overall profile of SUNY.

Infused within the other pieces of this portfolio, I hope you will find that I possess mastery of subject matter and an effort for continued growth. Right before submitting my previous portfolio I had finished my coursework for my Master of Science in Information Design and Technology. Having finished this degree program, I have spent time applying my degree to the library field. These skills show through in my design efforts of LibGuides, the library webpage, and handouts. Moreover, I use this degree with the instructional design interactions I have with faculty. I have worked to obtain the Expert Instructional Designer certification through Open SUNY’s Center for Online Teaching Excellence. I also hope you will see that my coursework in the PhD program at the University at Buffalo constitutes mastery of subject matter and effort for continued growth.

I believe I have completed the necessary steps to merit promotion to Librarian. When I look back at what I’ve accomplished, I am truly proud of what I’ve done. I am even more proud of the library we have all built and our unparalleled support of students. I hope you will find sufficient evidence in here to show that I meet the guidelines as established in our most recent APT revision to merit a promotion to the rank of Librarian. Should you desire more documentation, please do not hesitate to ask. 

Sincerely,

Logan Rath